src/content/tutorials/tdx-troubleshooting-next-steps.md, before:

---
title: "Appendix A: TDX Troubleshooting & Next Steps"
description: "Troubleshoot common TDX issues and learn what to do after TDX is enabled"
section: "Host Setup"
stepNumber: null
totalSteps: null
isAppendix: true
tags:
  - "tdx"
  - "troubleshooting"
  - "next-steps"
  - "resources"
difficulty: "intermediate"
estimatedTime: "15 minutes"
lastUpdated: 2025-10-31
---

# TDX Troubleshooting & Next Steps

This tutorial covers common TDX issues, their solutions, and guides you on what to do after successfully enabling TDX.

## Troubleshooting Common Issues

Before troubleshooting, verify your current TDX status:

```bash
# Check TDX parameter
cat /sys/module/kvm_intel/parameters/tdx

# Check TME status
dmesg | grep -i tme

# Check TDX initialization
dmesg | grep -i tdx
```

### Issue: TDX Still Shows "N" After BIOS Config

**Possible causes:**
1. BIOS settings not saved properly
2. TME not enabled
3. Secure Boot interfering (try disabling)
4. SEAM loader not enabled

**Solution:**
- Re-enter BIOS and verify all settings
- Ensure TME and TME-MT are both enabled
- Check that SEAM Loader is enabled
- Try disabling Secure Boot temporarily

### Issue: "x86/tme: not enabled by BIOS"

**Cause:** TME not enabled in BIOS

**Solution:**
- Enter BIOS
- Navigate to CPU Configuration → Memory Encryption
- Enable TME and TME-MT
- Save and reboot

### Issue: TME-MT Option Greyed Out/Disabled

**Cause:** CPU Physical Address Limit is enabled (restricts to 46-bit addressing)

**Why this happens:** Intel MKTME (Multi-Key Total Memory Encryption), which TME-MT uses, requires upper address bits for encryption key IDs. The 46-bit physical address limit reserves these bits, preventing TME-MT from functioning. Many server BIOS configurations enable this by default for older OS/hypervisor compatibility.

**Solution:**
1. Enter BIOS
2. Navigate to: **Advanced → CPU Configuration** (or **Processor Configuration**)
3. Find: **"Limit CPU Physical Address to 46 bits"** or **"Physical Address Limit"**
   - May also be labeled: "Hyper-V Physical Address Limit" or "Address Width Limit"
4. **Disable** this setting
5. Save and reboot
6. Re-enter BIOS - TME-MT should now be selectable
7. Enable TME-MT and continue with TDX setup

**Note:** This is documented in Dell, ASUS, and other server vendor documentation. Enabling the 46-bit limit automatically disables TME-MT capabilities.

### Issue: No SEAM Firmware After Enabling TDX

**What this actually means:**

If you see your TDX status checks and do NOT see `virt/tdx: module initialized` in dmesg, or you see TDX-related errors during boot, this indicates the SEAM (Secure Arbitration Mode) firmware module failed to load.

**Symptoms:**
- `dmesg | grep -i tdx` shows errors or no "module initialized" message
- `cat /sys/module/kvm_intel/parameters/tdx` returns `N` after enabling TDX in BIOS
- TDX-related error messages in dmesg

**Possible causes:**
1. Server firmware/BIOS needs update
2. Intel TDX SEAM module not installed in firmware
3. BIOS TDX settings not properly saved

**Solution:**
- Update server BIOS/firmware to latest version
- Check with server vendor for TDX support
- Verify BIOS settings were saved and applied (re-enter BIOS to confirm)
- Some early TDX-capable CPUs may need firmware updates

### Issue: Kernel Panic After Enabling TDX

**Cause:** Incompatible BIOS settings or outdated firmware

**Solution:**
- Boot into previous kernel from GRUB menu
- Update server BIOS/firmware
- Check Intel and server vendor documentation for specific TDX requirements

## What's Next?

Now that TDX is enabled on your host, you can:

### 1. Create TDX Guest VMs

- Use QEMU/libvirt to launch Trust Domains
- Configure TD guest images with TDX support

### 2. Test TDX Functionality

- Run Canonical's test suite: `cd tests && ./test-tdx.sh`
- Verify TD attestation

### 3. Test TDX Attestation

- Verify attestation quote generation
- Test remote attestation flow
- Validate DCAP configuration

### 4. Deploy dstack

- Install dstack SDK
- Deploy confidential applications to TDX VMs
- Use attestation API for runtime verification

## Setup Complete Summary

You have successfully:

✓ Installed TDX-enabled kernel (6.8.0-1028-intel)
✓ Installed TDX-enabled QEMU, libvirt, and OVMF
✓ Configured GRUB for TDX kernel boot
✓ Enabled TDX hardware features in BIOS
✓ Verified TDX initialization

Your server is now ready to run Intel TDX Trust Domains!

## Additional Resources

### Official Documentation

- **Intel ARK (Processor Verification):** https://ark.intel.com
- **Intel TDX Enabling Guide:** https://cc-enabling.trustedservices.intel.com/intel-tdx-enabling-guide/
- **Canonical TDX Documentation:** https://github.com/canonical/tdx
- **Intel TDX Overview:** https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/trust-domain-extensions/overview.html
- **Ubuntu TDX Wiki:** https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/intel-tdx-trust-domain-extensions/

### dstack Resources

- **dstack Documentation:** https://docs.phala.com/dstack/overview
- **dstack GitHub:** https://github.com/Phala-Network/dstack

## System Requirements Reference

### Hardware

- Intel Xeon Scalable (5th Gen Emerald Rapids or 4th Gen Sapphire Rapids with TDX)
  - Verify TDX support at https://ark.intel.com
- Memory: At least 2 channels populated per socket (identical DIMMs recommended)
- BIOS with TDX support

### Software

- Ubuntu 24.04 LTS (Noble)
- linux-image-intel 6.8.0-1028 or later
- QEMU 8.2.2+tdx1.1 or later
- libvirt 10.0.0+tdx1.2 or later
- OVMF 2024.02+tdx1.0 or later

### BIOS Settings

- TME enabled
- TME-MT enabled
- TDX enabled
- SEAM Loader enabled
- SGX enabled (optional)
- **Physical Address Limit: DISABLED** (critical for TME-MT)

## Getting Help

If you encounter issues not covered in this troubleshooting guide:

1. Check the [Canonical TDX GitHub Issues](https://github.com/canonical/tdx/issues)
2. Review Intel's [TDX Enabling Guide](https://cc-enabling.trustedservices.intel.com/intel-tdx-enabling-guide/)
3. Consult your server vendor's documentation for TDX-specific guidance
4. Visit the [Ubuntu Discourse TDX Forum](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/intel-tdx-trust-domain-extensions/)

## Congratulations!

You've completed the Intel TDX host setup tutorial series. Your server is now configured to run confidential computing workloads using Intel Trust Domain Extensions.

Commit message:

Consolidate TDX tutorials and add SGX requirements for KMS
- Update tdx-bios-configuration.md with comprehensive SGX settings
  including SGX Auto MP Registration (required for KMS attestation)
- Create tdx-software-installation.md (consolidates setup + kernel)
- Create tdx-sgx-verification.md (consolidates TDX + SGX verification)
- Delete redundant tutorials: tdx-software-setup.md,
  tdx-kernel-installation.md, tdx-status-verification.md
- Update tdx-hardware-verification.md and troubleshooting tutorial
- Update test file references to use new tutorial names
- Add spec and audit files

Host Setup tutorials reduced from 7 to 5 with clearer flow:
1. Hardware Verification
2. BIOS Configuration (TDX + SGX in one session)
3. Software Installation
4. TDX & SGX Verification

src/content/tutorials/tdx-troubleshooting-next-steps.md, after:

---
title: "Appendix A: TDX Troubleshooting & Next Steps"
description: "Troubleshoot common TDX issues and learn what to do after TDX is enabled"
section: "Host Setup"
stepNumber: null
totalSteps: null
isAppendix: true
tags:
  - "tdx"
  - "troubleshooting"
  - "next-steps"
  - "resources"
difficulty: "intermediate"
estimatedTime: "15 minutes"
lastUpdated: 2025-12-07
---

# TDX Troubleshooting & Next Steps

This tutorial covers common TDX issues, their solutions, and guides you on what to do after successfully enabling TDX.

## Troubleshooting Common Issues

Before troubleshooting, verify your current TDX status:

```bash
# Check TDX parameter
cat /sys/module/kvm_intel/parameters/tdx

# Check TME status
dmesg | grep -i tme

# Check TDX initialization
dmesg | grep -i tdx
```

### Issue: TDX Still Shows "N" After BIOS Config

**Possible causes:**
1. BIOS settings not saved properly
2. TME not enabled
3. Secure Boot interfering (try disabling)
4. SEAM loader not enabled

**Solution:**
- Re-enter BIOS and verify all settings
- Ensure TME and TME-MT are both enabled
- Check that SEAM Loader is enabled
- Try disabling Secure Boot temporarily

### Issue: "x86/tme: not enabled by BIOS"

**Cause:** TME not enabled in BIOS

**Solution:**
- Enter BIOS
- Navigate to CPU Configuration → Memory Encryption
- Enable TME and TME-MT
- Save and reboot

### Issue: TME-MT Option Greyed Out/Disabled

**Cause:** CPU Physical Address Limit is enabled (restricts to 46-bit addressing)

**Why this happens:** Intel MKTME (Multi-Key Total Memory Encryption), which TME-MT uses, requires upper address bits for encryption key IDs. The 46-bit physical address limit reserves these bits, preventing TME-MT from functioning. Many server BIOS configurations enable this by default for older OS/hypervisor compatibility.

**Solution:**
1. Enter BIOS
2. Navigate to: **Advanced → CPU Configuration** (or **Processor Configuration**)
3. Find: **"Limit CPU Physical Address to 46 bits"** or **"Physical Address Limit"**
   - May also be labeled: "Hyper-V Physical Address Limit" or "Address Width Limit"
4. **Disable** this setting
5. Save and reboot
6. Re-enter BIOS - TME-MT should now be selectable
7. Enable TME-MT and continue with TDX setup

**Note:** This is documented in Dell, ASUS, and other server vendor documentation. Enabling the 46-bit limit automatically disables TME-MT capabilities.

### Issue: No SEAM Firmware After Enabling TDX

**What this actually means:**

If you see your TDX status checks and do NOT see `virt/tdx: module initialized` in dmesg, or you see TDX-related errors during boot, this indicates the SEAM (Secure Arbitration Mode) firmware module failed to load.

**Symptoms:**
- `dmesg | grep -i tdx` shows errors or no "module initialized" message
- `cat /sys/module/kvm_intel/parameters/tdx` returns `N` after enabling TDX in BIOS
- TDX-related error messages in dmesg

**Possible causes:**
1. Server firmware/BIOS needs update
2. Intel TDX SEAM module not installed in firmware
3. BIOS TDX settings not properly saved

**Solution:**
- Update server BIOS/firmware to latest version
- Check with server vendor for TDX support
- Verify BIOS settings were saved and applied (re-enter BIOS to confirm)
- Some early TDX-capable CPUs may need firmware updates

### Issue: Kernel Panic After Enabling TDX

**Cause:** Incompatible BIOS settings or outdated firmware

**Solution:**
- Boot into previous kernel from GRUB menu
- Update server BIOS/firmware
- Check Intel and server vendor documentation for specific TDX requirements

## What's Next?

Now that TDX is enabled on your host, you can:

### 1. Create TDX Guest VMs

- Use QEMU/libvirt to launch Trust Domains
- Configure TD guest images with TDX support

### 2. Test TDX Functionality

- Run Canonical's test suite: `cd tests && ./test-tdx.sh`
- Verify TD attestation

### 3. Test TDX Attestation

- Verify attestation quote generation
- Test remote attestation flow
- Validate DCAP configuration

### 4. Deploy dstack

- Install dstack SDK
- Deploy confidential applications to TDX VMs
- Use attestation API for runtime verification

## Setup Complete Summary

You have successfully:

✓ Installed TDX-enabled kernel (6.8.0-1028-intel)
✓ Installed TDX-enabled QEMU, libvirt, and OVMF
✓ Configured GRUB for TDX kernel boot
✓ Enabled TDX hardware features in BIOS
✓ Verified TDX initialization

Your server is now ready to run Intel TDX Trust Domains!

## Additional Resources

### Official Documentation

- **Intel ARK (Processor Verification):** https://ark.intel.com
- **Intel TDX Enabling Guide:** https://cc-enabling.trustedservices.intel.com/intel-tdx-enabling-guide/
- **Canonical TDX Documentation:** https://github.com/canonical/tdx
- **Intel TDX Overview:** https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/trust-domain-extensions/overview.html
- **Ubuntu TDX Wiki:** https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/intel-tdx-trust-domain-extensions/

### dstack Resources

- **dstack Documentation:** https://docs.phala.com/dstack/overview
- **dstack GitHub:** https://github.com/Phala-Network/dstack

## System Requirements Reference

### Hardware

- Intel Xeon Scalable (5th Gen Emerald Rapids or 4th Gen Sapphire Rapids with TDX)
  - Verify TDX support at https://ark.intel.com
- Memory: At least 2 channels populated per socket (identical DIMMs recommended)
- BIOS with TDX support

### Software

- Ubuntu 24.04 LTS (Noble)
- linux-image-intel 6.8.0-1028 or later
- QEMU 8.2.2+tdx1.1 or later
- libvirt 10.0.0+tdx1.2 or later
- OVMF 2024.02+tdx1.0 or later

### BIOS Settings

- TME enabled
- TME-MT enabled
- TDX enabled
- SEAM Loader enabled
- SGX enabled (required for KMS attestation)
- SGX Auto MP Registration enabled (required for KMS)
- **Physical Address Limit: DISABLED** (critical for TME-MT)

## Getting Help

If you encounter issues not covered in this troubleshooting guide:

1. Check the [Canonical TDX GitHub Issues](https://github.com/canonical/tdx/issues)
2. Review Intel's [TDX Enabling Guide](https://cc-enabling.trustedservices.intel.com/intel-tdx-enabling-guide/)
3. Consult your server vendor's documentation for TDX-specific guidance
4. Visit the [Ubuntu Discourse TDX Forum](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/intel-tdx-trust-domain-extensions/)

## Congratulations!

You've completed the Intel TDX host setup tutorial series. Your server is now configured to run confidential computing workloads using Intel Trust Domain Extensions.
