src/content/tutorials/tdx-status-verification.md, before:

---
title: "TDX Status Verification"
description: "Check TDX status and understand what BIOS configuration is needed"
section: "Host Setup"
stepNumber: 4
totalSteps: 6
prerequisites:
    - "Completed Part 3: TDX Kernel Installation"
    - "Server rebooted successfully"
tags:
    - "tdx"
    - "verification"
    - "status"
    - "troubleshooting"
difficulty: "intermediate"
estimatedTime: "10 minutes"
lastUpdated: 2025-10-31
---

# TDX Status Verification

This tutorial covers verifying that the TDX kernel loaded successfully and checking the TDX status to determine what BIOS configuration is needed.

## Step 7: Verify TDX Kernel Loaded

After reboot, SSH back into the server and verify the TDX kernel is running:

```bash
uname -r
```

**Expected output:**

```
6.8.0-1028-intel
```

✓ Success! You're now running the TDX-enabled Intel kernel.

## Step 8: Check TDX Status

Now let's check if TDX is enabled in the system.

### Check dmesg for TDX Messages

```bash
dmesg | grep -i tdx
```

**If TDX is enabled (after BIOS config), you should see:**

```
[    X.XXXXXX] virt/tdx: module initialized
```

**If TDX is NOT enabled (before BIOS config), output will be empty.**

### Check TDX Kernel Module

```bash
ls -la /sys/module/kvm_intel/parameters/ | grep tdx
```

**Expected output:**

```
-r--r--r-- 1 root root 4096 Oct 31 19:04 tdx
```

Check the TDX parameter value:

```bash
cat /sys/module/kvm_intel/parameters/tdx
```

**Output:**

-   `N` = TDX is NOT enabled (BIOS configuration needed)
-   `Y` = TDX is enabled and ready to use

### Check TME (Total Memory Encryption)

TDX requires TME (Total Memory Encryption) to be enabled in BIOS:

```bash
dmesg | grep -i tme
```

**If TME is NOT enabled:**

```
[    0.000000] x86/tme: not enabled by BIOS
```

**If TME is enabled:**

```
[    0.000000] x86/tme: enabled by BIOS
```

### Check for SEAM Firmware

```bash
ls -la /sys/firmware/tdx* 2>/dev/null || echo "No TDX firmware found"
```

**If TDX is NOT enabled:**

```
No TDX firmware found
```

**If TDX is enabled, you'll see:**

```
/sys/firmware/tdx_seam/
```

## Next Steps

Continue to **Part 5: TDX BIOS Configuration** to enable TDX hardware features in BIOS and complete the setup.

Commit message:

Fix misleading SEAM firmware verification in TDX tutorials
CRITICAL FIX: Removed incorrect /sys/firmware/tdx* verification method

Changes:
- Part 4 (Status Verification): Replaced incorrect '/sys/firmware/tdx*' check with correct explanation that this path does not exist on TDX systems
- Clarified that SEAM firmware is verified through dmesg 'virt/tdx: module initialized' message only
- Part 6 (Troubleshooting): Completely rewrote 'No SEAM Firmware' section to explain what it actually means
- Added clear statement that absence of /sys/firmware/tdx* is normal and expected
- Listed actual symptoms of SEAM firmware failure (missing dmesg messages, errors)

Based on research of Intel TDX documentation and Canonical TDX guide:
- No official documentation mentions /sys/firmware/tdx paths
- SEAM verification is done exclusively through kernel dmesg output
- The TDX module IS the SEAM firmware component

This was causing user confusion - they saw 'No TDX firmware found' and thought it was a problem when TDX was actually working perfectly.

src/content/tutorials/tdx-status-verification.md, after:

---
title: "TDX Status Verification"
description: "Check TDX status and understand what BIOS configuration is needed"
section: "Host Setup"
stepNumber: 4
totalSteps: 6
prerequisites:
    - "Completed Part 3: TDX Kernel Installation"
    - "Server rebooted successfully"
tags:
    - "tdx"
    - "verification"
    - "status"
    - "troubleshooting"
difficulty: "intermediate"
estimatedTime: "10 minutes"
lastUpdated: 2025-10-31
---

# TDX Status Verification

This tutorial covers verifying that the TDX kernel loaded successfully and checking the TDX status to determine what BIOS configuration is needed.

## Step 7: Verify TDX Kernel Loaded

After reboot, SSH back into the server and verify the TDX kernel is running:

```bash
uname -r
```

**Expected output:**

```
6.8.0-1028-intel
```

✓ Success! You're now running the TDX-enabled Intel kernel.

## Step 8: Check TDX Status

Now let's check if TDX is enabled in the system.

### Check dmesg for TDX Messages

```bash
dmesg | grep -i tdx
```

**If TDX is enabled (after BIOS config), you should see:**

```
[    X.XXXXXX] virt/tdx: module initialized
```

**If TDX is NOT enabled (before BIOS config), output will be empty.**

### Check TDX Kernel Module

```bash
ls -la /sys/module/kvm_intel/parameters/ | grep tdx
```

**Expected output:**

```
-r--r--r-- 1 root root 4096 Oct 31 19:04 tdx
```

Check the TDX parameter value:

```bash
cat /sys/module/kvm_intel/parameters/tdx
```

**Output:**

-   `N` = TDX is NOT enabled (BIOS configuration needed)
-   `Y` = TDX is enabled and ready to use

### Check TME (Total Memory Encryption)

TDX requires TME (Total Memory Encryption) to be enabled in BIOS:

```bash
dmesg | grep -i tme
```

**If TME is NOT enabled:**

```
[    0.000000] x86/tme: not enabled by BIOS
```

**If TME is enabled:**

```
[    0.000000] x86/tme: enabled by BIOS
```

### Verify TDX Module (SEAM) is Loaded

The Intel TDX SEAM (Secure Arbitration Mode) firmware is verified through the TDX module initialization message in dmesg. There is **no `/sys/firmware/tdx*` path** - that does not exist on TDX systems.

The correct verification is the dmesg output you checked earlier:

```bash
dmesg | grep -i "tdx module"
```

**If SEAM firmware loaded successfully (after BIOS config):**

```
[  XXX.XXXXXX] virt/tdx: TDX module: attributes 0x0, vendor_id 0x8086, major_version 1, minor_version 5, build_date 20240725, build_num 784
[  XXX.XXXXXX] virt/tdx: module initialized
```

The message `virt/tdx: module initialized` confirms that the Intel TDX SEAM module loaded successfully.

**If SEAM firmware is missing or failed to load:**

You would see error messages during boot, or the `module initialized` message would be absent. This indicates a BIOS firmware issue that requires updating your server BIOS.

## Next Steps

Continue to **Part 5: TDX BIOS Configuration** to enable TDX hardware features in BIOS and complete the setup.
