src/content/tutorials/tdx-software-installation.md, before:

---
title: "TDX Software Installation"
description: "Install Canonical's TDX software stack, kernel, and attestation components"
section: "Host Setup"
stepNumber: 3
totalSteps: 4
lastUpdated: 2025-12-07
prerequisites:
  - tdx-bios-configuration
tags:
  - tdx
  - software
  - kernel
  - installation
  - attestation
difficulty: "intermediate"
estimatedTime: "20 minutes"
---

# TDX Software Installation

This tutorial guides you through installing Canonical's TDX software stack, including the TDX-enabled kernel, QEMU, libvirt, and attestation components.

## Prerequisites

Before starting, ensure you have:

- Completed [TDX & SGX BIOS Configuration](/tutorial/tdx-bios-configuration)
- Ubuntu 24.04 LTS freshly installed
- Internet connectivity for package downloads

## Set Up Ubuntu User

For this setup, you'll need an `ubuntu` user with passwordless sudo. If you're logged in as root or another user:

```bash
# Create ubuntu user (skip if already exists)
sudo adduser ubuntu

# Add to sudo group
sudo usermod -aG sudo ubuntu

# Configure passwordless sudo
echo 'ubuntu ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL' | sudo tee /etc/sudoers.d/ubuntu
sudo chmod 0440 /etc/sudoers.d/ubuntu

# Set up SSH access (copy your authorized_keys)
sudo mkdir -p /home/ubuntu/.ssh
sudo cp ~/.ssh/authorized_keys /home/ubuntu/.ssh/authorized_keys
sudo chown -R ubuntu:ubuntu /home/ubuntu/.ssh
sudo chmod 600 /home/ubuntu/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

From now on, SSH as the ubuntu user:

```bash
ssh ubuntu@YOUR_SERVER_IP
```

## Clone Canonical TDX Repository

Canonical provides official scripts and tools for TDX setup.

```bash
cd ~
git clone -b main https://github.com/canonical/tdx.git
cd tdx
```

Verify the repository contents:

```bash
ls -la
```

You should see:

- `setup-tdx-host.sh` - Main setup script for TDX host
- `setup-tdx-guest.sh` - Script for TDX guest VMs
- `setup-tdx-config` - Configuration file
- `setup-tdx-common` - Common functions
- `attestation/` - Attestation components
- `guest-tools/` - Tools for guest VMs

## Configure TDX Settings

Before running the setup, review and configure the settings.

### View Current Configuration

```bash
cat setup-tdx-config
```

**Key configuration options:**

| Option | Default | Description |
|--------|---------|-------------|
| `TDX_PPA` | tdx-release | Which PPA to use |
| `TDX_SETUP_ATTESTATION` | 0 | Enable attestation components |
| `TDX_SETUP_NVIDIA_H100` | 0 | NVIDIA H100 GPU support |
| `TDX_SETUP_INTEL_KERNEL` | 0 | Intel-optimized guest kernel |

### Enable Attestation (Required for dstack)

**Attestation is required for dstack deployments.** It provides cryptographic proof that your workloads run in genuine Intel TDX Trust Domains.

Enable attestation:

```bash
sed -i 's/TDX_SETUP_ATTESTATION=0/TDX_SETUP_ATTESTATION=1/' setup-tdx-config
```

Verify the change:

```bash
grep TDX_SETUP_ATTESTATION setup-tdx-config
```

Expected output: `TDX_SETUP_ATTESTATION=1`

## Run TDX Host Setup Script

The setup script will:

1. Add Canonical's TDX PPA (`ppa:kobuk-team/tdx-release`)
2. Install TDX-enabled kernel (`linux-image-intel`)
3. Install TDX-enabled QEMU, libvirt, and OVMF
4. Configure GRUB to boot the TDX kernel
5. Install attestation components (if enabled)
6. Add your user to the `kvm` group

Run the setup:

```bash
sudo ./setup-tdx-host.sh
```

**Expected output:**

```
Hit:1 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu noble InRelease
...
Adding repository.
...
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  linux-image-6.8.0-1028-intel linux-image-intel
  qemu-system-x86 libvirt-daemon-system libvirt-clients
  ovmf
  ...
Need to get 304 MB of archives.
After this operation, 746 MB of additional disk space will be used.
...
```

### Installed Packages

**Core TDX packages:**

| Package | Version | Description |
|---------|---------|-------------|
| `linux-image-intel` | 6.8.0-1028+ | TDX-enabled kernel |
| `qemu-system-x86` | 8.2.2+tdx | TDX-enabled QEMU |
| `libvirt0` | 10.0.0+tdx | TDX-enabled libvirt |
| `ovmf` | 2024.02+tdx | TDX-enabled UEFI firmware |

**Attestation packages (if enabled):**

| Package | Version | Description |
|---------|---------|-------------|
| `tdx-qgs` | 1.21 | Quote Generation Service |
| `sgx-dcap-pccs` | 1.21 | Provisioning Certificate Caching Service |
| `libsgx-dcap-default-qpl` | 1.21 | Quote Provider Library |
| `sgx-ra-service` | 1.21 | Remote Attestation Service |

**Installation time:**

- Without attestation: ~5 minutes
- With attestation: ~10 minutes

### Setup Completion Message

The script will complete with:

```
========================================================================
The host OS setup has been done successfully. Now, please enable Intel TDX in the BIOS.
========================================================================
```

> **Note:** You've already configured BIOS in the previous tutorial, so you can ignore the BIOS reminder.

## Verify Kernel Installation

Before rebooting, verify the TDX kernel was installed:

```bash
ls -la /boot/vmlinuz* | grep intel
```

**Expected output:**

```
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root       24 Dec  7 10:30 /boot/vmlinuz -> vmlinuz-6.8.0-1028-intel
-rw------- 1 root root 15006088 May 23 15:48 /boot/vmlinuz-6.8.0-1028-intel
```

Check GRUB is configured to boot the Intel kernel:

```bash
cat /etc/default/grub.d/99-tdx-kernel.cfg
```

Check current kernel (should still be generic):

```bash
uname -r
```

**Example output:**

```
6.8.0-88-generic
```

After reboot, you'll be running the Intel TDX kernel.

## Reboot to TDX Kernel

Reboot the server to load the TDX-enabled kernel:

```bash
sudo reboot
```

**Note:** The server may take 2-3 minutes to reboot. This is normal as TDX initialization takes time during boot.

## Post-Reboot Verification

After reboot, SSH back in and verify the TDX kernel is running:

```bash
ssh ubuntu@YOUR_SERVER_IP
uname -r
```

**Expected output:**

```
6.8.0-1028-intel
```

If you see `6.8.0-1028-intel` (or similar Intel kernel version), the TDX kernel is loaded.

## Troubleshooting

### Script fails with permission denied

```bash
sudo chmod +x setup-tdx-host.sh
sudo ./setup-tdx-host.sh
```

### PPA fails to add

Check internet connectivity:

```bash
ping -c 3 ppa.launchpad.net
```

If behind a proxy, configure apt proxy settings.

### Kernel doesn't change after reboot

Verify GRUB configuration:

```bash
grep -r intel /etc/default/grub.d/
```

Manually select kernel in GRUB menu if needed (hold Shift during boot).

### Attestation services fail to start

This is normal before BIOS is configured. Services will start properly after full TDX enablement.

## Next Steps

Continue to [TDX & SGX Verification](/tutorial/tdx-sgx-verification) to verify TDX and SGX are properly enabled.

## Additional Resources

- [Canonical TDX Repository](https://github.com/canonical/tdx)
- [Ubuntu TDX Documentation](https://github.com/canonical/tdx/blob/main/README.md)
- [Intel TDX Documentation](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/trust-domain-extensions/overview.html)

Commit message:

Add setup-tdx-host.yml Ansible playbook for TDX software installation
- Create setup-tdx-host.yml with early exit pattern (no action if TDX kernel running)
- Clone Canonical TDX repo pinned to tag 3.3
- Enable attestation, run setup script, verify kernel, reboot if changed
- Add Ansible quick start section to tdx-software-installation tutorial
- Add playbook documentation to ansible/README.md
- Add approved spec: tdx-software-via-ansible.md

src/content/tutorials/tdx-software-installation.md, after:

---
title: "TDX Software Installation"
description: "Install Canonical's TDX software stack, kernel, and attestation components"
section: "Host Setup"
stepNumber: 3
totalSteps: 4
lastUpdated: 2025-12-07
prerequisites:
  - tdx-bios-configuration
tags:
  - tdx
  - software
  - kernel
  - installation
  - attestation
difficulty: "intermediate"
estimatedTime: "20 minutes"
---

# TDX Software Installation

This tutorial guides you through installing Canonical's TDX software stack, including the TDX-enabled kernel, QEMU, libvirt, and attestation components.

## Prerequisites

Before starting, ensure you have:

- Completed [TDX & SGX BIOS Configuration](/tutorial/tdx-bios-configuration)
- Ubuntu 24.04 LTS freshly installed
- Internet connectivity for package downloads

## Quick Start: Install with Ansible

For automated installation, use the Ansible playbook:

```bash
cd ~/dstack-info/ansible
ansible-playbook -i inventory/hosts.yml playbooks/setup-tdx-host.yml
```

The playbook will:
1. Clone Canonical's TDX repository (pinned to tag 3.3)
2. Enable attestation components
3. Run the TDX host setup script
4. Verify kernel installation
5. Reboot to load the TDX kernel

After reboot, verify with:
```bash
ansible-playbook -i inventory/hosts.yml playbooks/verify-tdx.yml
```

> **Idempotency:** If already running the TDX kernel, the playbook exits immediately with no action.

---

## Manual Installation

If you prefer to install manually, follow the steps below.

## Set Up Ubuntu User

For this setup, you'll need an `ubuntu` user with passwordless sudo. If you're logged in as root or another user:

```bash
# Create ubuntu user (skip if already exists)
sudo adduser ubuntu

# Add to sudo group
sudo usermod -aG sudo ubuntu

# Configure passwordless sudo
echo 'ubuntu ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL' | sudo tee /etc/sudoers.d/ubuntu
sudo chmod 0440 /etc/sudoers.d/ubuntu

# Set up SSH access (copy your authorized_keys)
sudo mkdir -p /home/ubuntu/.ssh
sudo cp ~/.ssh/authorized_keys /home/ubuntu/.ssh/authorized_keys
sudo chown -R ubuntu:ubuntu /home/ubuntu/.ssh
sudo chmod 600 /home/ubuntu/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

From now on, SSH as the ubuntu user:

```bash
ssh ubuntu@YOUR_SERVER_IP
```

## Clone Canonical TDX Repository

Canonical provides official scripts and tools for TDX setup.

```bash
cd ~
git clone -b main https://github.com/canonical/tdx.git
cd tdx
```

Verify the repository contents:

```bash
ls -la
```

You should see:

- `setup-tdx-host.sh` - Main setup script for TDX host
- `setup-tdx-guest.sh` - Script for TDX guest VMs
- `setup-tdx-config` - Configuration file
- `setup-tdx-common` - Common functions
- `attestation/` - Attestation components
- `guest-tools/` - Tools for guest VMs

## Configure TDX Settings

Before running the setup, review and configure the settings.

### View Current Configuration

```bash
cat setup-tdx-config
```

**Key configuration options:**

| Option | Default | Description |
|--------|---------|-------------|
| `TDX_PPA` | tdx-release | Which PPA to use |
| `TDX_SETUP_ATTESTATION` | 0 | Enable attestation components |
| `TDX_SETUP_NVIDIA_H100` | 0 | NVIDIA H100 GPU support |
| `TDX_SETUP_INTEL_KERNEL` | 0 | Intel-optimized guest kernel |

### Enable Attestation (Required for dstack)

**Attestation is required for dstack deployments.** It provides cryptographic proof that your workloads run in genuine Intel TDX Trust Domains.

Enable attestation:

```bash
sed -i 's/TDX_SETUP_ATTESTATION=0/TDX_SETUP_ATTESTATION=1/' setup-tdx-config
```

Verify the change:

```bash
grep TDX_SETUP_ATTESTATION setup-tdx-config
```

Expected output: `TDX_SETUP_ATTESTATION=1`

## Run TDX Host Setup Script

The setup script will:

1. Add Canonical's TDX PPA (`ppa:kobuk-team/tdx-release`)
2. Install TDX-enabled kernel (`linux-image-intel`)
3. Install TDX-enabled QEMU, libvirt, and OVMF
4. Configure GRUB to boot the TDX kernel
5. Install attestation components (if enabled)
6. Add your user to the `kvm` group

Run the setup:

```bash
sudo ./setup-tdx-host.sh
```

**Expected output:**

```
Hit:1 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu noble InRelease
...
Adding repository.
...
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  linux-image-6.8.0-1028-intel linux-image-intel
  qemu-system-x86 libvirt-daemon-system libvirt-clients
  ovmf
  ...
Need to get 304 MB of archives.
After this operation, 746 MB of additional disk space will be used.
...
```

### Installed Packages

**Core TDX packages:**

| Package | Version | Description |
|---------|---------|-------------|
| `linux-image-intel` | 6.8.0-1028+ | TDX-enabled kernel |
| `qemu-system-x86` | 8.2.2+tdx | TDX-enabled QEMU |
| `libvirt0` | 10.0.0+tdx | TDX-enabled libvirt |
| `ovmf` | 2024.02+tdx | TDX-enabled UEFI firmware |

**Attestation packages (if enabled):**

| Package | Version | Description |
|---------|---------|-------------|
| `tdx-qgs` | 1.21 | Quote Generation Service |
| `sgx-dcap-pccs` | 1.21 | Provisioning Certificate Caching Service |
| `libsgx-dcap-default-qpl` | 1.21 | Quote Provider Library |
| `sgx-ra-service` | 1.21 | Remote Attestation Service |

**Installation time:**

- Without attestation: ~5 minutes
- With attestation: ~10 minutes

### Setup Completion Message

The script will complete with:

```
========================================================================
The host OS setup has been done successfully. Now, please enable Intel TDX in the BIOS.
========================================================================
```

> **Note:** You've already configured BIOS in the previous tutorial, so you can ignore the BIOS reminder.

## Verify Kernel Installation

Before rebooting, verify the TDX kernel was installed:

```bash
ls -la /boot/vmlinuz* | grep intel
```

**Expected output:**

```
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root       24 Dec  7 10:30 /boot/vmlinuz -> vmlinuz-6.8.0-1028-intel
-rw------- 1 root root 15006088 May 23 15:48 /boot/vmlinuz-6.8.0-1028-intel
```

Check GRUB is configured to boot the Intel kernel:

```bash
cat /etc/default/grub.d/99-tdx-kernel.cfg
```

Check current kernel (should still be generic):

```bash
uname -r
```

**Example output:**

```
6.8.0-88-generic
```

After reboot, you'll be running the Intel TDX kernel.

## Reboot to TDX Kernel

Reboot the server to load the TDX-enabled kernel:

```bash
sudo reboot
```

**Note:** The server may take 2-3 minutes to reboot. This is normal as TDX initialization takes time during boot.

## Post-Reboot Verification

After reboot, SSH back in and verify the TDX kernel is running:

```bash
ssh ubuntu@YOUR_SERVER_IP
uname -r
```

**Expected output:**

```
6.8.0-1028-intel
```

If you see `6.8.0-1028-intel` (or similar Intel kernel version), the TDX kernel is loaded.

## Troubleshooting

### Script fails with permission denied

```bash
sudo chmod +x setup-tdx-host.sh
sudo ./setup-tdx-host.sh
```

### PPA fails to add

Check internet connectivity:

```bash
ping -c 3 ppa.launchpad.net
```

If behind a proxy, configure apt proxy settings.

### Kernel doesn't change after reboot

Verify GRUB configuration:

```bash
grep -r intel /etc/default/grub.d/
```

Manually select kernel in GRUB menu if needed (hold Shift during boot).

### Attestation services fail to start

This is normal before BIOS is configured. Services will start properly after full TDX enablement.

## Next Steps

Continue to [TDX & SGX Verification](/tutorial/tdx-sgx-verification) to verify TDX and SGX are properly enabled.

## Additional Resources

- [Canonical TDX Repository](https://github.com/canonical/tdx)
- [Ubuntu TDX Documentation](https://github.com/canonical/tdx/blob/main/README.md)
- [Intel TDX Documentation](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/trust-domain-extensions/overview.html)
